# Web Application Exercise

A little exercise to build a web application following an agile development process. See the [instructions](instructions.md) for more detail.

## Product Vision Statement

The app is made to allow users to input and edit information cards about food carts they've been to, as well as visit other people's written entries.

## User stories

[User Stories](https://github.com/software-students-fall2023/2-web-app-exercise-riceballs/issues)

## Task boards

[Sprint 1 Taskboard](https://github.com/orgs/software-students-fall2023/projects/13)
[Sprint 2 Taskboard](https://github.com/orgs/software-students-fall2023/projects/45/views/1)

## instructions to run app 

1. download source code from the repository
2. Install `pipenv` using `pip`:

   ```
   pip3 install pipenv
   ```
3. activate the virtual enviroment with:
    ```
   pipenv shell
   ```
4. Then install the dependencies with: 
   ```
   pipenv install 
   ```
5. now create a file called .env. 
6. Since my group used MongoDB Atlas, for the graders to use our database, they must acquire the username and password. Furthermore, we need their IP address to whitelist them. To do so, please contact one of the repository contributors to generate the username and password and whitelist your IP address.
7. After doing the above step, you should populate your .env file with the following replacing username and password with what one of the contributors gave you: 
    ```     
    MONGO_DBNAME=riceball
    MONGO_URI="mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>.2hnuzyy.mongodb.net/riceball"
    FLASK_APP=app.py
    FLASK_ENV=development

   ```
8. Alternatively, you can use your own database; replace the `<username>:<password>` with the credentials you generated and replace the Mongo_URI string with your string that was generated by MongoDB. Furthermore, make sure to create a collection named `users` and another collection named `food_trucks_information`. 
9. Finally run the app with either `python` app.py or `flask run`.


